
## https://medium.com/the-code-review/top-10-docker-commands-you-cant-live-without-54fb6377f481


### docker-compose

#### docker-compose up

#### docker-compose down

Usage: down [options]

Options:
    --rmi type              Remove images. Type must be one of:
                              'all': Remove all images used by any service.
                              'local': Remove only images that don't have a
                              custom tag set by the `image` field.
    -v, --volumes           Remove named volumes declared in the `volumes`
                            section of the Compose file and anonymous volumes
                            attached to containers.
    --remove-orphans        Remove containers for services not defined in the
                            Compose file
    -t, --timeout TIMEOUT   Specify a shutdown timeout in seconds.
                            (default: 10)


#### docker-compose stop

Usage: stop [options] [SERVICE...]

Options:
  -t, --timeout TIMEOUT      Specify a shutdown timeout in seconds.
                             (default: 10)
Stops running containers without removing them. They can be started again with docker-compose start




### general:

```
docker login  
docker ps -a  
docker images  
docker build  
docker run -d -p  
docker push  
docker rm  
docker rmi  
docker volume prune  

docker container exec -it my_mysql /bin/bash
docker container exec -it wiremock-docker_wiremock_1 /bin/bash

docker-compose up
docker-compose start
docker-compose down
docker-compose stop



-  kill all running containers with 

docker kill $(docker ps -q)

- delete all stopped containers with 

docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)

- delete all images with 

docker rmi $(docker images -q)

- view logs


# -t display timestamp 
# -f track display log 
# --tail the last line number, default all 
# --since specify the start time, such as: 30m "2020-05-22" 

docker logs -t -f [CONTAINER ID]/ [NAMES]
docker logs -t -f --tail=100 --since=30m [CONTAINER ID]/ [NAMES]
docker logs -t -f --tail=100 --since= " 2020-05-22 " [cONTAINER ID] / [NAMES]

- view details of the container 
Docker Inspect [cONTAINER ID] / [NAMES]

```


### docker ps 

—  Lists running containers. Some useful flags include: -a / -all for all containers (default shows just running) and —-quiet /-q to list just their ids (useful for when you want to get all the containers).


### docker pull

 —  Most of your images will be created on top of a base image from the Docker Hub registry. Docker Hub contains many pre-built images that you can pull and try without needing to define and configure your own. To download a particular image, or set of images (i.e., a repository), use docker pull.


### docker build 

—  The docker build command builds Docker images from a Dockerfile and a “context”. A build’s context is the set of files located in the specified PATH or URL. Use the -t flag to label the image, for example docker build -t my_container . with the . at the end signalling to build using the currently directory.


### docker run 

—  Run a docker container based on an image, you can follow this on with other commands, such as -it bash to then run bash from within the container. Also see Top 10 options for docker run — a quick reference guide for the CLI command. docker run my_image -it bash


### docker logs

 —  Use this command to display the logs of a container, you must specify a container and can use flags, such as --follow to follow the output in the logs of using the program. docker logs --follow my_container


### docker volume ls 

—  ab0c55cf5818This lists the volumes, which are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers.


### docker rm 

—  Removes one or more containers. docker rm my_container


### docker rmi 

—  Removes one or more images. docker rmi my_image


### docker stop 

—  Stops one or more containers. docker stop my_container stops one container, while docker stop $(docker ps -a -q) stops all running containers. A more direct way is to use docker kill my_container, which does not attempt to shut down the process gracefully first.

### Use them together 

for example to clean up all your docker images and containers:
-  kill all running containers with docker kill $(docker ps -q)

- delete all stopped containers with docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)

- delete all images with docker rmi $(docker images -q)

